The crash last year also involved a plane that went down minutes after takeoff and after the crew requested permission to return to the airport.

In that case, investigations by the Indonesian and American aviation authorities determined that the Lion Air plane’s abrupt nose dive might have been caused by updated Boeing software that was meant to prevent a stall but that can send the plane into a fatal descent if the altitude and angle information being fed into the computer system is incorrect.

The change in the flight control system, which can override manual motions in the Max model, was not explained to pilots, according to some pilots’ unions.

After that crash, Boeing said that it was continuing “to evaluate the need for software or other changes as we learn more from the ongoing investigation.” It was unclear if the company had made any changes.

In a statement on Sunday, Boeing said it was “deeply saddened” to learn of the crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302.

“A Boeing technical team is prepared to provide technical assistance at the request and under the direction of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board,” the company said.

Which airlines fly the Max?
In addition to Ethiopian Airlines, which has a reputation in Africa for having a newer fleet than other airlines, and Lion Air, an Indonesian low-cost airline with a long history of maintenance problems, many airlines around the world use this model.

Sign up for The Interpreter
Subscribe for original insights, commentary and discussions on the major news stories of the week, from columnists Max Fisher and Amanda Taub.

SIGN UP
ADVERTISEMENT


In the United States, American Airlines, Southwest Airlines and United Airlines are all operators, using it on routes like Miami-New York and Dallas-Chicago. Other major carriers around the world include Aerolíneas Argentinas, Air China, Icelandair and LOT Polish Airlines.

As airlines responded to the news on Sunday, some offered assurances and said they were monitoring the results of the investigation. In a statement, Southwest Airlines, which has about 30 Max 8 planes and more than 750 total aircrafts made by Boeing, said, “We remain confident in the safety and airworthiness of our fleet.”

The planes are still certified as airworthy by aviation’s governing bodies. But if you’re concerned, most airlines let you see the aircraft type when booking your travel online.

On Southwest’s website, for example, you can find what kind of plane will be used by clicking the flight number on the page where prices and flight times are displayed. You can also find what kind of plane is being used for your flight on seatguru.com.

Zach Wichter contributed reporting.

Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh.